Here you will take your notes:

During this lecture, we are going to learn something about programming networks. First of all, it's necessary to know
what is a client and what is a server. A server is a program that is inside a machine and have valid information
that can be very useful for the client. The client is another program inside the same machine or another that can
request for the information that the server has. If there is no server, then you have a problem, but if there is a
server but not clients, there is no problem. Once you have the server, then the client can work after executing.
In a computer we have many programs, not only one. And there may be more than one servers in a computer as well.

For testing, not always we have more than one computer, but we can have one computer running the server and the client
although it might be confused. However, at first we are going to communicate computers that are physically separated.

Internet. Client and server are connected through a network called internet that allows us to communicate different
programs easily, but it is actually very complex. Inside the internet, there are many isolated computers that are
connected one to each other and they are divided in groups or networks. If we want to send a message from the client to
the server, we have to identify both machines. IP address is the Network interface, which depend on the number of
computers connected to it. IP address can change depending on the computer which you are connected. You send the
messages and then they arrive to the place we wanted them to go thanks to the internet, which is amazing.

My phone IP address at URJC is: 10.0.54.79
My lab computer IP address at URJC is: 212.128.253.70
Teacher's IP address at URJC is: 212.128.253.64

There is a command called ping for asking the computer if it is alive.

* Ping time to 8.8.8.8:
time=3.24

* Ping time to my computer: time=0.063 ms (63us)

* Ping time to a computer in the same network:
time=0.636 ms (636us)

* Ping time to my mobile phone: time=6.60 ms

An URL identify a computer interface for humans. For example, www.google.com. The browser connects to the DNS and give
you the IP address.

Ping to www.google.com:
216.58.211.228

Ping to www.urjc.es:
212.128.240.50

We need the IP address for communicating with other machines. We use the port in order to identify any of the available
applications that can communicate. If I want to connect with an specific server of a machine I need to specify it and we
will connect only with the server we want. If you do not specify the port, then the connection will not be possible.

The model for sending messages from the client to the server is similar to a file. For reading the file and even write
it, you must create an object and then call the file to be written or read. For communication is exactly the same.

THIS IS A TEXT EXAMPLE FOR ADDING INFORMATION TO MY FILE

Sockets are a kind of objects that we use for communicating applications. The first thing I have to do if I want to
create a client is to run a server because if there is no server, I cannot execute the client.